# HackathonML
Predicting Dyslexia using Machine Learning.

In this project, we are making predictions using Machine Learning, on the basis of quiz scores of a person to see whether they have Dyslexia. In our dataset, we have the columns ‘Language_vocab’, ‘Memory’, ‘Speed’, ‘Visual_discrimination’, ‘Audio_Discrimination’, ‘Survey_Score’ and ‘Label’. Every applicant is required to take a quiz which has different questions to test language vocabulary, memory, speed, visual discrimination and audio discrimination. On the basis of their answers of these questions, points for each section are calculated and put into the first five columns of the dataset, respectively. On the basis of the scores in these five sections, the ‘Survey_Score’ is calculated. These scores are analysed to get the value of ‘Label’, which ranges from 0 to 2. The values 0, 1 and 2 mean that the chances of the applicant having dyslexia are low, moderate and high, respectively. 
The purpose of this project is to predict the ‘Label’ i.e., chances of the applicant having dyslexia, if the values of ‘Language_vocab’, ‘Memory’, ‘Speed’, ‘Visual_discrimination’, ‘Audio_Discrimination’ and ‘Survey_Score’ are provided. In the file ‘DyslexiaML’, we have created five different models to find the one which is the best fit for the given dataset. The comparison has been made between DecisionTree, RandomForest, SVM, RandomForest with GridSearch and SVM with GridSearch, on the basis of error, precision and recall. On comparing all of these parameters, we found that RandomForest with GridSearch is the best fit for our dataset. 
On the basis of our findings, we then created the final model using RandomForestClassifier with GridSearchCV in order to make the most accurate predictions, in ‘DyslexiaML_final’ file. This model was then tested on a new dataset to find the labels, which were then compared with the actual label values. After this check we found out that our model was able to make predictions for dyslexia with a 5.8% error rate.
